1.Create a new user for a contractor, assign them to an "IT Support" group, and ensure they can only access the Incident application.
Solution:
●	Create the Contractor User
●	Navigate to Users → User Administration > Users.
●	Click New.
●	Fill in details:
○	User ID: contractor1 
○	First name / Last name: Contractor User
○	Email: contractor1@gmail.com
○	Active: Checked.
●	Save.
●	Assign the User to the "IT Support" Group
●	On the user record, scroll to Groups (related list).
●	Click Edit.
●	Add to the IT Support group.
●	Save.
●	Restrict Access to Only the Incident Application
              Now we need to make sure this contractor can only work with Incident.
Option A: Role-Based Control (Mostly Preferred)
●	By default, Incident application requires itil role.
●	Instead of giving full itil access (which gives too much), do the following:
○	Create a new custom role, ex: incident_contractor.
○	Assign this role only to permissions needed for Incident (using ACLs).
○	Assign the new role to your contractor user.
○	Do not give itil or other broad roles.
Option B: Application Menu Restriction
●	Go to System Definition > Application Menus.
●	Open the Incident application menu.
●	In the Roles field, add your custom role (incident_contractor).
○	This ensures only users with this role can see the Incident.
●	    Verify Access
●	Impersonate the contractor user.
●	Check:
○	They should only see the Incident application in the left nav.
○	They can open/create/edit incidents (based on the ACLs you configured).
○	They cannot access other apps (like Change, Problem, etc.).





















2. Assign a role to a new group so members can read Knowledge Articles but cannot create or edit them.
●	Create a New Group
●	Navigate to User Administration > Groups.
●	Click New.
●	Enter a Name for the group (e.g., Knowledge Readers).
●	Optionally, add a Description.
●	Click Submit.
●	Assign the Appropriate Role
To allow read-only access to Knowledge Base articles, assign the knowledge role:
●	Open the newly created group.
●	Scroll to the Roles related list.
●	Click Edit.
●	Add the role: knowledge
○	This role allows users to view published articles.
●	Click Save.
**Do NOT assign roles like knowledge_admin or knowledge_manager, which grant create/edit permissions.
●	Add Users to the Group
●	In the group record, scroll to the Group Members related list.
●	Click Edit.
●	Select users you want to add.
●	Click Save.
●	 Verify Access
●	Log in as one of the group members.
●	Navigate to Knowledge > Articles.
●	Confirm they can view articles.
●	Try creating or editing an article — they should not have access.

3. Configure a UI Policy that hides the "Work Notes" field unless the state is "In Progress".
Solution:
●	Navigate to UI Policies
●	Go to Application Navigator → type UI Policies → click System UI > UI Policies.
●	Create a New UI Policy
●	Click New.
●	Select the Table → e.g., Incident (or whichever table you’re working on).
●	Provide a Name (e.g., Hide Work Notes unless In Progress).
●	In the Conditions section, set:
○	Field = State
○	Operator = is
○	Value = In Progress.
●	Check the box Active.
●	Save the record.
●	Add a UI Policy Action
●	In the same UI Policy record, scroll to UI Policy Actions (Related List).
●	Click New.
●	Configure the action:
○	Field name = Work notes
○	Visible = True (since you want it visible only when the condition is met).
●	Submit the action








4. Configure a UI Policy to hide Notes section in incident, when state is In Progress.
Solution:
●	Navigate to UI Policies
●	Go to Application Navigator → type UI Policies → click System UI > UI Policies.
●	Create a New UI Policy
●	Click New.
●	Select the Table → e.g., Incident (or whichever table you’re working on).
●	Provide a Name (e.g., Hide Work Notes unless In Progress).
●	In the Conditions section, set:
○	Field = State
○	Operator = is
○	Value = In Progress.
●	Check the box Active.
●	Save the record.
●	Make Run Script box True
●	Just write one line of code:
●	g_form.setSectionDisplay(‘notes’,false);
●	Submit the action

5. Configure a response SLA, the SLA should pause, when the incident state is in On Hold vice versa.
●	Create or Modify an SLA Definition
●	Navigate to Service Level Management > SLA Definitions.
●	Click New or open an existing SLA (e.g., "Response SLA").
●	Fill in the basic details:
○	Name: Response SLA
○	Table: Incident
○	Type: Response
○	Duration: Set your desired time (e.g., 1 hour)
●	Set SLA Conditions
●	Under the Start Condition:
○	Example: State is New 
●	Under the Stop Condition:
○	Example: State is Resolved or Closed
●	Under the Pause Condition:
○	Add: State is On Hold
This ensures the SLA timer pauses when the incident is moved to On Hold, and resumes when it returns to another New  state
●	Test the SLA Behavior
●	Create a test incident.
●	Confirm SLA starts when an incident is created.
●	Change state to On Hold — SLA should pause.
●	Change back to Active — SLA should resume.
●	Resolve the incident — SLA should stop.















6.Configure an email notification that alerts the assigned group whenever a new Change Request is created.
Solution:
●	Navigate to Notifications
●	In the Application Navigator, type Notifications.
●	Go to System Notification > Email > Notifications.
●	Create a New Notification
1.	Click New.
2.	Fill in the basic details:
a.	Name: New Change Request Assigned Group Alert
b.	Table: Change Request [change_request]
c.	Active: Checked
●	Define When to Send
1.	Under When to send, configure:
a.	When to send: Insert (since you want this when a new record is created).
●	Define Who Will Receive
1.	In the Recipients tab:
a.	Under Users/Groups in fields, choose Assigned to group (or the field name for assigned group).
b.	This ensures the entire assigned group gets the email.
●	Define What Will Contain
●	In the What it will contain tab:
○	Subject: New Change Request Created - ${number}
Message HTML (sample):

A new Change Request has been created.
○	Number: ${number}  
○	Short Description: ${short_description}  
○	Requested By: ${requested_by}  
○	Assignment Group: ${assignment_group}  
○	State: ${state}  
Please review and take necessary action.  
●	Save & Test
●	Save the Notification.
●	Create a new Change Request record, assign it to a group.
●	Verify that the email goes out to all members of the Assigned Group.























7. Create a report showing the number of incidents opened by each department in the last 30 days.
●	Navigate to Reports
●	Go to Reports > Open Reports Modules.
●	Click Create a Report.
●	Define Report Source
●	Name: Incidents by Department - Last 30 Days
●	Source Table: Incident
●	Set Conditions
●	Under Filter, add:
○	Opened At → on or after → Today - 30 days
○	Department → is not empty (optional, to exclude unassigned)
●	Choose Report Type
●	Select Type: Bar Chart or Pie Chart (or List if you prefer tabular view)
●	Configure Grouping
●	Under Group By, select: Department
●	Under Aggregation, choose: Count
●	Save and Run
●	Click Save.
●	Click Run to view the report.










8. Build a dashboard for Service Desk Managers showing KPIs like  incidents by priority, created within a week, state wise also.
Step 1: Create Individual Reports
You’ll need to create three separate reports first:
●	Incidents by Priority
●	Go to: Reports > Create New
●	Name: Incidents by Priority
●	Source Table: Incident
●	Type: Bar Chart or Pie Chart
●	Group By: Priority
●	Aggregation: Count
●	Filter: Opened At → on or after → Today - 30 days
●	 Incidents Created Within a Week
●	Name: Incidents Created - Last 7 Days
●	Source Table: Incident
●	Type: Time Series or Bar Chart
●	Filter: Opened At → on or after → Today - 7 days
●	Group By: Opened At (Daily)
●	Aggregation: Count
●	Incidents by State
●	Name: Incidents by State
●	Source Table: Incident
●	Type: Bar Chart or Pie Chart
●	Group By: State
●	Aggregation: Count
●	Filter: Opened At → on or after → Today - 30 days
Step 2: Create a Dashboard
●	Go to Self-Service > Dashboards.
●	Click Create New Dashboard.
●	Name: Service Desk Manager KPIs
●	Add a Proper Description
●	Click Submit.
Step 3: Add Reports to the Dashboard
1.	Open the newly created dashboard.
2.	Click Edit Content.
3.	Use Add Reports to include:
○	Incidents by Priority
○	Incidents Created - Last 7 Days
○	Incidents by State
4.	Arrange the widgets as needed for clarity.

9. Restrict the ability to delete records in the Change Request table so only users with the "admin" role can do so.
●	Navigate to Access Control (ACLs)
●	In the Application Navigator, type Access Control.
●	Go to System Security > Access Control (ACL).
●	Create a New ACL Rule
●	Click New.
●	Fill in details:
○	Type: record
○	Operation: delete
○	Table: Change Request [change_request]
○	Name: (auto-populates when you pick table + operation)
●	Define the Condition / Role
In the Requires role field, add: admin
●	This ensures only users with the admin role can delete records.
●	Save & Test
●	Save the ACL.
●	Test with a non-admin user → they should not see the delete option (or get a permission error if they try via URL).
●	Test with an admin user → delete should work normally.




10. Create a custom table and create two reference fields (ex: assignment group and assigned to). Display the users based on selection of assignment group.
●	Create a Custom Table
1.	In the Application Navigator, type Tables.
2.	Go to System Definition > Tables.
3.	Click New.
○	Name: u_custom_task 
○	Label: Custom Task.
○	Save.
●	Add Fields
1.	Open your table and go to the Columns tab.
2.	Add two reference fields:
○	Assignment Group → Type = Reference, Table = sys_user_group.
○	Assigned To → Type = Reference, Table = sys_user.
●	Configure Reference Qualifier on "Assigned To"
●	We need to filter "Assigned To" users based on the selected Assignment Group.
Using Reference Qualifier
●	Right click on the Assigned To field, click on Configure Dictionary.
●	Go to Dependent Section, give the name of the Assignment Group(ex: u_ass_group)
●	Update and Test the functionality.



11.How to auto assign incidents when user selects a category as network, the same incident be assigned to Network group.
Solution:
1.	Go to Flow Designer → Designer.
2.	Click New Flow.
○	Name: Assign Incident by Category
○	Trigger: Created or Updated → Table = Incident
3.	Add a If action (Condition) with expression:
○	Select Trigger Record Category is Network 
4.	Under the If branch, add Action → Update Record:
○	Record: Trigger → Incident(Trigger Record)
○	Set field Assignment group → Network
5.	Save and Activate the flow.
6.	Test the Flow.















12. HR Groups members are only able to see HR Related Records in servicenow?
Solution:
Step 1: Create a Role for HR Access 
Navigate to:
    User Administration → Roles → New
1.	Enter:
○	Name: hr_access
○	Description: Role to allow access to HR Cases
2.	Click Submit.
Step 2: Assign the Role to HR Group
1.	Navigate to:
 User Administration → Groups
2.	Open your HR group record.
3.	In the Roles tab → click Edit.
4.	Move hr_access from Available → Selected.
5.	Click Save.
Now all members of the HR group have the hr_access role.
Step 3: Create Access Control (ACL) for Viewing HR Cases
1.	Navigate to:
 System Security → Access Control (ACL)
2.	Click New.
Fill in:
Field	Value
Type	record
Operation	read
Table	Your HR Case table
Active	True

Step 4: Define Access Condition (No Script)
Scroll down to the Requires role section:
●	Add the Role hr_access.
This means only users with the hr_access role can read/view HR Case records.
Step 5: Save and Test
1.	Click Submit or Update to save the ACL.
2.	Impersonate a non-HR user:
○	Go to your profile → click Impersonate User → choose a user not in the HR group.
○	Try opening an HR Case record → You should see a “Security constraints prevent access to requested page” message.
3.	Now impersonate an HR group member:
○	They should be able to open HR Cases normally







13. When the Incident state changes to In Progress, Child incident related list should be hidden.
Solution:
1.	Navigate to System UI → UI Policies → New.
2.	Fill the header:
○	Name: Hide related lists when State is In Progress  Table: Incident Active: checked Global: checked
3.	Condition: State is In Progress
 (Use the exact label used in your instance for the In Progress state.)
4.	Submit the UI Policy record.
5.	In the UI Policy record click New under UI Policy Actions.
Set:
●	Field name: select the related list–Child incident Visible: false Read only: optional 
●	Save and Test the UI Policy Action.


14.How to Display Incident number while loading the incident form
Solution:
1.	Navigate to System UI → Client Scripts → New.
2.	Fill the header:
○	Name: Show Incident Number on Load
○	Table: Incident
○	Type: onLoad
○	Active: True
3.	Add this script:
function onLoad() {
  // Get the Incident number field value
  var incNum = g_form.getValue('number'); // 'number' is the field name
  alert('Incident Number: ' + incNum);
}


15. When the Incident state changes to In Progress, description should be hidden and  short description should be mandatory.
Solution:
Step 1 — Navigate to Client Scripts
1.	Go to:
 System UI → Client Scripts → New
2.	Fill the header:
○	Name: Hide Description and Make Short Description Mandatory
○	Table: Incident
○	Type: onChange 
○	Field name: state
○	Active: checked
Step 2 — Add the Client Script Code
function onChange(control, oldValue, newValue, isLoading) {
    if (isLoading) return; 
    if (newValue === '2') {
        g_form.setDisplay('description', false);
        g_form.setMandatory('short_description', true);
    } else {
         g_form.setDisplay('description', true);
        g_form.setMandatory('short_description', false);
    }
}
●	Click Submit or Update to save.





15. If the description field is empty in the incident table, prevent the form submission.
Solution:
Step 1 — Navigate to Client Scripts
1.	Go to:
 System UI → Client Scripts → New
2.	Fill the header:
○	Name: Prevent Submit if Description Empty
○	Table: Incident
○	Type: onSubmit
○	Active: checked
Step 2 — Add the Client Script Code
function onSubmit() {
 var description = g_form.getValue('description');
    if (description == '') {
   g_form.addErrorMessage('Description cannot be empty');
        return false;
    } else {
    return true;
}
}
















16. Users can not change the state field values in the incident list.
Solution:
Step 1 — Navigate to Client Scripts
3.	Go to:
 System UI → Client Scripts → New
4.	Fill the header:
○	Name: Prevent State Inline Edit
○	Table: Incident
○	Type: onCellEdit
○	Field name: state
○	Active: checked
Step 2 — Add the Client Script Code
if(newValue==2){
alert(‘You can not edit this value’);
saveAndClose==false;
}else{
saveAndClose==true;
}

17. How to set the Caller to Logged in user automatically in the incident table.
Solution:
1.	Navigate: System Definition → Business Rules → New
2.	Fill the details:
○	Name: Set Caller on Incident Create
○	Table: Incident
○	When: before
○	Insert/update: checked
○	Advanced: true
3.	Script:
    current.caller_id = gs.getUserID();














18.When a user updates an incident record, priority should change to Critical automatically.
Solution:
1.	Navigate: System Definition → Business Rules → New

2.	Settings:
○	Name: Set Priority field
○	Table: Incident
○	When: before
○	Update:checked
3.	Script:
    current.impact = 1;
    current.urgency = 1;



19.Create a button on the Incident form that allows users to mark an Incident as Resolved with a single click.
Solution:
1.	Navigate: System UI → UI Actions → New
2.	Settings:

○	Name: Resolve Incident
○	Table: Incident
○	Action type: Form button
○	Active: checked
3.	Script:
○	current.state = 6;
○	current.update();
○	action.setRedirectURL(current);





20.Create a button on the incident table that copies the Short Description value into the Description field.
Solution:
1.	Navigate: System UI → UI Actions → New
2.	Settings:
○	Name: Copy Short Description
○	Table: Incident
○	Action type: Form button
○	Active: checked

3.	Script:
○	current.description = current.short_description;
○	current.update();
○	action.setRedirectURL(current);




https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1QbqVzludXlKihibhFDbnrriF4IInUDOn?usp=sharing

